Create security page and document request identity (#431)
restatedev/documentation: docs/operate/security.mdx

---
title: "Security"
sidebar_position: 6
description: "Restrict access to Restate services"
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Admonition from '@theme/Admonition';

# Security

## Private services
<CH.Section>
    When registering an endpoint, every service is by default reachable via HTTP requests to the ingress.

    You can configure a service as `private`, such that you can't invoke it over HTTP, through the [Admin API](focus://1[15:28]) ([docs](/references/admin-api#tag/service/operation/modify_service)):

    ```shell
    curl -X PATCH localhost:9070/services/MyService \
        -H 'content-type: application/json' \
        -d '{"public": false}'
    ```

    You can revert it back to public with [`{"public": true}`](focus://3).

    <Admonition type="info">
        Private services can still be invoked by other handlers via the SDK.
    </Admonition>
</CH.Section>

## Locking down service access
Only Restate needs to be able to make requests to your services - requests from
other services or from the ingress will always go via the Restate runtime. It is
therefore advisable to ensure that only Restate can reach your service.

> Unrestricted access to the services is dangerous.

Reviewer: Another benefit is to prevent misconfigurations and registering endpoints in the wrong env if operating multiple Restate instances.

the following script:
<details className="grey-details">
    <summary>generate.sh</summary>
    ```shell
    #!/usr/bin/env bash
    set -euo pipefail

    # generate private key
    openssl genpkey -algorithm ed25519 -outform pem -out private.pem
    echo "Wrote private key to private.pem"

    base58_chars="123456789ABCDEFGHJKLMNPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijkmnopqrstuvwxyz"
    # encode public key
    encoded=$(openssl ec -in private.pem -inform pem -pubout -outform der -out /dev/stdout 2>/dev/null |
        tail -c +13 |
        basenc --base16 "${1:-/dev/stdin}" -w0 |
        if
          read
          [[ $REPLY =~ ^((00)*)(([[:xdigit:]]{2})*) ]]
          echo -n "${BASH_REMATCH[1]//00/1}" # leading 0s -> 1
          (( ${#BASH_REMATCH[3]} > 0 ))
        then
          dc -e "16i0${BASH_REMATCH[3]^^} Ai[58~rd0<x]dsxx+f" | # hex bytes to indexes into the char string
          while read -r
          do echo -n "${base58_chars:REPLY:1}"
          done
        fi)

    echo -n "publickeyv1_${encoded}" > public-key
    echo "Wrote publickeyv1_${encoded} to public-key"
    ```
</details>

The string `publickeyv1_w7YHemBctH5Ck2nQRQ47iBBqhNHy4FV7t2Usbye2A6f` does not

> need to be kept secret and even be included in your code when providing to the

Reviewer: This sounds a little odd, maybe an improvement?
```suggestion
need to be kept secret and can be safely included in your code when providing to the
```
